Welcome back everyone.
Here we are where we left off last time previously we have a very simple auto encoder that takes the
original image reduces it down by ninety seven percent.
So from seven hundred eighty four dimensions down to twenty five and then expands it back out and attempts
to reconstruct it.
And we saw the results here next.
Let's go ahead and apply this for an application of these noisier images to be in.
Let's first figure out who are actually going to add noise to our images.
Lots different ways you can do this but for convenience we're actually going to make it part of the
auto encoder by saying from tensor flow that carries dot layers import Gaussian noise.
And what I'm going to do is just show you a sample of what this actually does by saying Gaussian noise.
You notice that it just takes in the standard deviation.
Obviously the larger value you choose the more noise is going to be added.
And then let's grab some of those noisy images we'll say.
Noise is equal to sample.
And let's go ahead just say x test let's say grab the first 10 images is a batch and to make sure it's
actually trains and adds noise.
I just need to say training is equal to true there.
When you run this you make it a warning such as this.
This is just a data type warning due to tensor flight too.
But since we're actually running things for two we can ignore this warning.
OK.
So how these noisy images let's go and see what they look like.
What do you say and is equal to zero and then let's print out the original and say PDT M show from our
x test set n and then then say here PDT show and then after that we'll say APL T M show from noisy.
Go ahead and grab a pen and some tape peel t show and write for that we'll go ahead and print out noise
version.
So run that and you should see the original seven.
Here's what it looks like.
And after being passin through that Gaussian noise layer here we can see that noisy version.
So clearly there's a lot of noise here that are auto encoder will hopefully be able to remove.
So let's create the noise removal auto encoder to do this.
I'm just going to do a quick import here.
Import tensor flow as T F and then what I'll do is I'm actually going to use the same encoder and decoder
as before.
Just add in that noise layer.
So we'll come back up here and the previous lecture created this encoder.
Go ahead and just copy it scroll all the way back down here and then paste it in.
And we're going to do is after we flattened this out.
But before we reduced the dimensions we're going to say encoder.
And we're going to add in that Gaussian noise layer.
Let's go ahead and added in zero point two.
Obviously is something a play around with.
And then in order to make sure the same noise that you create is what was what I create it's going to
set a random seed because ATF random set seed.
And this is the same thing as if we were to set the random seed of nut pie by saying and pea that random
that seed as one to one recall what I want is just an arbitrary number.
So there's our encoder exactly the same as four except graphed or flattening it in before reducing the
dimensionality from it.
We added in this noise.
So go ahead and run that and then let's grab our decoder so we'll come back up here and the decoder
half of things is actually exactly the same.
So we just need to copy this scroll all the way back down and go ahead and paste it in.
OK.
So we have our encoder and decoder.
Let's combine them to create our noise remover will say noise remover is equal to sequential.
And then combine the encoder with the decoder and let's compile this by saying noise remover compile
and same loss as before.
So we'll say binary cross entropy.
And for the optimizer you can play around with stochastic reading the sense if you want to just kind
of keep things simple now just pass an atom and let's go ahead and keep track of our metrics.
Also keep track of accuracy.
So compile your model and then we will fit our model we'll say noise remover fit and we pass an X training
and we just want to compare it to the same original image.
So X train X train and then train it for some amount of epochs go to choose eight if you want.
You can pass and validation data in order to compare it to see how it's actually removing noise from
test images that hasn't been training on that we'll go ahead and just run it as so.
OK.
So here we are going to train for a epochs.
Let's go ahead and fast forward in time until this is done train.
All right.
Now this is done training.
Let's go ahead and pass in some noisy images through this noise remover auto encoder and see how it
actually performs to do this.
I'm going to create 10 new noise images will say 10 noisy images and I'm going to pass that through
the original sample that we saw before which is just a pure Gaussian noise.
Let's go ahead and take X test pass and let's say the first 10 points and then say training is equal
to true.
And so here we have our 10 noisy images and then we're going to do is pass those noisy images through
the noise from over auto encoder.
So safety noise so to speak or removal of noise is equal to noise remover and we're just gonna pass
in those 10 noisy images there we go.
And then let's go ahead and print out three things.
We're gonna print out the original image so what it looked like before you even put noise on it.
So original image and then we're gonna print out the noise added image and then finally we're gonna
print out what it looks like after noise removal from auto encoder.
OK so what is actually look like just read the before it's given just to choose and you can play around
with this from that batch of 10 points we'll say PDT M show first grab from the original x test dataset
one of these and then say Pil t show and then let's go ahead and copy these lines.
Except now for noise added image that's going to be from 10 noisy images.
And then after noise removal from auto encoder that's from this deep noise.
So to speak.
So say de noise and something to keep in mind here is that the way we actually designed this auto encoder
the encoder part is actually going to add noise again.
So this is kind of like double noisy images that are being encoded in and then decoded out.
So just keep that in mind that this is almost like twice the amount of noise.
So let's go and run this and see how well our auto encoder actually performs.
So here's the original image.
The first one.
So there's a seven.
This is what it looks like after one noise pass.
And then after going through the auto encoder we first add more noise to it then compress it down so
to speak or reduce the dimensionality.
And then after we expand it back out it looks like this.
So clearly it was able to remove the noise.
So the auto encoder then actually learn what pixels were important and being able to recreate the image
as output.
And so you can play around at this again maybe choose another image from that batch such as this zero.
Here's the noisy zero and in here it is after the noise removal.
OK.
So really cool applications we can use for our audio encoder.
Coming up next we're gonna set you loose on an exercise that focuses on using dimensionality reduction
in order to figure out the hidden insights in your real data set.
I'll see you there.